# Predicting-Cholesterol-Without-a-Clinical-Test
Cholesterol is a waxy substance that can be found in human blood and food. While cholesterol is essential for cell production, high cholesterol level can lead to increased risk of heart disease. There is low awareness of the importance of controlling cholesterol level among the general public as there is no direct symptoms associated with high cholesterol. Clinical tests for cholesterol are generally between US $50 and US $100 per test which can be expansive for people in developing countries. Data has shown that around 20%-30% of urban and 15% of rural populations in India suffer from high cholesterol, and the number is rising. 

Faced with this challenge, our team is aiming to develop an easy-to-access online platform where the general public can assess whether they are at the risk of high cholesterol by simply responding to a set of survey questions. The online platform will be built upon machine learning models that are trained to classify cholesterol level into either normal or high classes using data collected in the US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2013-2014. Users can reference resutls generated on the platform as an indicator before pursuing clinical tests and/or more thorough medical examination. 

In this project, our team has retrieved survey data on demographic, socioeconomic, physiological, dietary,and daily routine. Machine learning models that are trained and tested include logistic regression, SVC, Random Forest, XGBoost, and k-NN. More details about data preparation, exploratory data analysis, feature selection, model implementation, fine tuning and final results can be found in the ipython notebook. Overall, Random Forest has the best performace among all and the corresponding recall is 84%.
 
